CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Contributing to LNP/BP Core Library
===================================

The LNP/BP project operates an open contributor model where anyone is welcome to 
contribute towards development in the form of peer review, documentation, 
testing and patches.

Anyone is invited to contribute without regard to technical experience, 
"expertise", OSS experience, age, or other concern. However, the development of 
standards & reference implementations demands a high-level of rigor, adversarial 
thinking, thorough testing and risk-minimization. Any bug may cost users real 
money. That being said, we deeply welcome people contributing for the first time 
to an open source project or pick up Rust while contributing. Don't be shy, 
you'll learn.

Communications Channels
-----------------------

Communication about LNP/BP standards & implementations happens primarily 
in #lnp-pb  IRC chat on Freenode with the logs available at 
<http://gnusha.org/lnp-bp/>

Discussion about code base improvements happens in GitHub issues and on pull
requests.

Major projects are tracked [here](https://github.com/orgs/LNP-BP/projects).
Major milestones are tracked [here](https://github.com/LNP-BP/rust-lnpbp/milestones).

Contribution Workflow
---------------------

The codebase is maintained using the "contributor workflow" where everyone
without exception contributes patch proposals using "pull requests". This
facilitates social contribution, easy testing and peer review.

To contribute a patch, the workflow is a as follows:

  1. Fork Repository
  2. Create topic branch
  3. Commit patches

In general commits should be atomic and diffs should be easy to read. For this 
reason do not mix any formatting fixes or code moves with actual code changes. 
Further, each commit, individually, should compile and pass tests, in order to 
ensure git bisect and other automated tools function properly.

When adding a new feature thought must be given to the long term technical debt. 
Every new features should be covered by unit tests.

When refactoring, structure your PR to make it easy to review and don't hesitate
to split it into multiple small, focused PRs.

The Minimal Supported Rust Version is nightly for the period of active 
development; it is enforced by our Travis. Later we plan to fix to some specific 
Rust version after the initial library release.

Commits should cover both the issue fixed and the solution's rationale.
These [guidelines](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) should be kept in 
mind.

To facilitate communication with other contributors, the project is making use 
of GitHub's "assignee" field. First check that no one is assigned and then 
comment suggesting that you're working on it. If someone is already assigned, 
don't hesitate to ask if the assigned party or previous commenters are still 
working on it if it has been awhile.

Branches information
--------------------

The main library development happens in the `master` branch. This branch must 
always compile without errors (using Travis CI). All external contributions are 
made within PRs into this branch.

Each commitment within a PR to the `master` must 
* compile without errors;
* contain all necessary tests for the introduced functional;
* contain all docs.

Additionally to the `master` branch the repository has `develop` branch for any 
experimental developments. This branch may not compile and should not be used by 
any projects depending on `lnpbp` library.


Peer review
-----------

Anyone may participate in peer review which is expressed by comments in the pull
request. Typically reviewers will review the code for obvious errors, as well as
test out the patch set and opine on the technical merits of the patch. PR should
be reviewed first on the conceptual level before focusing on code style or 
grammar fixes.

Coding Conventions
------------------

Rust-fmt should be used as a coding style recommendations in general, with a 
default coding style. By default, Rustfmt uses a style which conforms to the 
[Rust style guide][style guide] that has been formalized through the [style RFC 
process][fmt rfcs]. It is also required to run `cargo fmt` to make the code 
formatted according to `rustfmt` parameters


Security
--------

Security is the primary focus of Rust-LNPBP; disclosure of security 
vulnerabilities helps prevent user loss of funds. If you believe a vulnerability 
may affect other  implementations, please inform them.

Note that Rust-LNPBP is currently considered "pre-production" during this time, 
there is no special handling of security issues. Please simply open an issue on 
Github.

Testing
-------

Related to the security aspect, Rust-LNPBP developers take testing very 
seriously. Due to the modular nature of the project, writing new functional
tests is easy and good test coverage of the codebase is an important goal. 
Refactoring the project to enable fine-grained unit testing is also an ongoing 
effort.

Fuzzing is heavily encouraged: feel free to add related material under `fuzz/`

Mutation testing is planned; any contribution there would be warmly welcomed.

Going further
-------------

You may be interested by Jon Atack guide on [How to review Bitcoin Core PRs](https://github.com/jonatack/bitcoin-development/blob/master/how-to-review-bitcoin-core-prs.md)
and [How to make Bitcoin Core PRs](https://github.com/jonatack/bitcoin-development/blob/master/how-to-make-bitcoin-core-prs.md).
While there are differences between the projects in terms of context and maturity, many
of the suggestions offered apply to this project.

Overall, have fun :)

Commit message:

Completing code docs for commit_verify and crate overall

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Contributing to LNP/BP Libraries
================================

The LNP/BP project operates an open contributor model where anyone is welcome to 
contribute towards development in the form of peer review, documentation, 
testing and patches.

Anyone is invited to contribute without regard to technical experience, 
"expertise", OSS experience, age, or other concern. However, the development of 
standards & reference implementations demands a high-level of rigor, adversarial 
thinking, thorough testing and risk-minimization. Any bug may cost users real 
money. That being said, we deeply welcome people contributing for the first time 
to an open source project or pick up Rust while contributing. Don't be shy, 
you'll learn.

Communications Channels
-----------------------

Communication about LNP/BP standards & implementations happens primarily 
on #lnp-pb IRC chat on Freenode with the logs available at 
<http://gnusha.org/lnp-bp/>

Discussion about code base improvements happens in GitHub issues and on pull
requests.

Major projects are tracked [here](https://github.com/orgs/LNP-BP/projects).
Project roadmap is tracked in each repository GitHub milestones.

Contribution Workflow
---------------------

The codebase is maintained using the "contributor workflow" where everyone
without exception contributes patch proposals using "pull requests". This
facilitates social contribution, easy testing and peer review.

To contribute a patch, the workflow is a as follows:

  1. Fork Repository
  2. Create topic branch
  3. Commit patches

In general commits should be atomic and diffs should be easy to read. For this 
reason do not mix any formatting fixes or code moves with actual code changes. 
Further, each commit, individually, should compile and pass tests, in order to 
ensure git bisect and other automated tools function properly.

When adding a new feature thought must be given to the long term technical debt. 
Every new features should be covered by unit tests.

When refactoring, structure your PR to make it easy to review and don't hesitate
to split it into multiple small, focused PRs.

The Minimal Supported Rust Version is nightly for the period of active 
development; it is enforced by our Travis. Later we plan to fix to some specific 
Rust version after the initial library release.

Commits should cover both the issue fixed and the solution's rationale.
These [guidelines](https://chris.beams.io/posts/git-commit/) should be kept in 
mind.

To facilitate communication with other contributors, the project is making use 
of GitHub's "assignee" field. First check that no one is assigned and then 
comment suggesting that you're working on it. If someone is already assigned, 
don't hesitate to ask if the assigned party or previous commenters are still 
working on it if it has been awhile.

Branches information
--------------------

The main library development happens in the `master` branch. This branch must 
always compile without errors (using Travis CI). All external contributions are 
made within PRs into this branch.

Each commitment within a PR to the `master` must 
* compile without errors;
* contain all necessary tests for the introduced functional;
* contain all docs.

Additionally to the `master` branch the repository has `develop` branch for any 
experimental developments. This branch may not compile and should not be used by 
any projects depending on the library.


Peer review
-----------

Anyone may participate in peer review which is expressed by comments in the pull
request. Typically reviewers will review the code for obvious errors, as well as
test out the patch set and opine on the technical merits of the patch. PR should
be reviewed first on the conceptual level before focusing on code style or 
grammar fixes.

Coding Conventions
------------------

Our CI enforces [clippy's](https://github.com/rust-lang/rust-clippy) 
[default linting](https://rust-lang.github.io/rust-clippy/rust-1.52.0/index.html)
and [rustfmt](https://github.com/rust-lang/rustfmt) formatting defined by rules
in [.rustfmt.toml](./.rustfmt.toml). Both linter and formatter are based on
1.52.0 version

If you use rustup, feel free to lint locally, otherwise you can just push to CI 
for automated linting.

```shell script
rustup component add clippy
rustup component add fmt
cargo clippy
cargo fmt
```

Security
--------

Security is the primary focus of LNP/BP libraries; disclosure of security 
vulnerabilities helps prevent user loss of funds. If you believe a vulnerability 
may affect other implementations, please inform them.

Note that LNP/BP libraries are currently considered "pre-production" during this
time, there is no special handling of security issues. Please simply open an 
issue on GitHub.

Testing
-------

Related to the security aspect, LNP/BP developers take testing very seriously. 
Due to the modular nature of the project, writing new functional tests is easy 
and good test coverage of the codebase is an important goal.

Fuzzing is heavily encouraged: feel free to add related material under `fuzz/`

Mutation testing is planned; any contribution there would be warmly welcomed.

Going further
-------------

You may be interested in Jon Atack guide on [How to review Bitcoin Core PRs](https://github.com/jonatack/bitcoin-development/blob/master/how-to-review-bitcoin-core-prs.md)
and [How to make Bitcoin Core PRs](https://github.com/jonatack/bitcoin-development/blob/master/how-to-make-bitcoin-core-prs.md).
While there are differences between the projects in terms of context and maturity, many
of the suggestions offered apply to this project.

Overall, have fun :)
